SPEAKER 0
This material is made available to you by or on behalf of the University of Melbourne under section 113P of the Copyright Act 1968. It may be subject to copyright. For more information, visit the university copyright website.

SPEAKER 1
I God. OK, uh, good morning, everyone. Ah, there must be some assessment going on, right? This week because we normally have 60 students and we have around half. And I meant to ask how many of you are in Mazzino's tutorials? OK. And how many of you are in Mohammad's tutorials? OK. And I leave Amir, who's in Amir. Nobody. OK. Well, it's interesting because every Monday night I ask the tutors, um, To, uh, report on how many students that come to the tutorials also went to the lecture. And Mazzino says 60-80% of his classes say, raise their hands and say, yes, we do. And Mohammad says, Less than 20% of his classes turning up to the lecture or reviewing the uh LMS LMS content or the recordings. And same for Amir. So I'm not sure, um, those of you who raised your hands when I asked Mohammed's class, can you Maybe raise your hands, make sure you raise your hands when you're in his tutorial because he keeps telling me, nobody's coming to your lecture, and nobody's reviewing the material, so I find that. Fascinating, interesting. Maybe students don't realize that we can tell that when people are reading or not reading which page on the LMS because we have reports and we can send them through an AI and say, OK, for this particular student, tell us which, which modules did they read, which modules did they not read, and we have reports. So we can tell the level of engagement that a student has with the material. That informs our understanding of when they perform well or they don't perform well in the exam, why that might be the case, right? So it's really important that if you are, if you've dropped off, that you continue to, you know, engage with the material, because it's a big indicator for us. It's like if the student is doing well or sorry, not doing well, and they haven't engaged with the LMS at all, then Right, that's uh a bit of an issue. We can't unfortunately, track elect people who turn up to a lecture in some other countries, they've got like swipe card access. In order to get a lecture theater, you have to swipe your ID card, so you get an attendance list, but we don't have that here. Anyway, so this week, um, we're gonna talk about security strategy, one of my favorite topics, and, uh, in the actual, um, in the actual tutorial, the second hour will be a practice exam. So we will, as you know, the, as you may know, the exam is divided into three sections. There is the multiple choice part, which is roughly about 20 questions. And then there is the short answer part, um, which is roughly around 30% of the exam, and then the third section, which is 50%, which is based on the case. So you'll get a case in the exam, you'll be asked to read the case, and then you'll have to answer three questions. And they're going to be the same three questions. One is going to be, what are your key insights about the case. One is going to be use the triplet model to tell us what the asset threats risk controls are or what is the main risk. And then in the final section you'll be asked to give recommendations on what the organization should do to address its security issues. And so, this week, you'll get the biotech innovation case, and you'll be given an hour and allowed to answer the 3 questions that will happen in the, the kind of questions you'll get in the second half of the exam because the second half is where everybody Basically falls off a cliff, right? Most people will get 1617 out of 20 in the multiple choice. I think that was the average last year. For the short answer questions, it's a bit of a hit and miss, but usually students will do OK. But the second half of the exam, you'll get blank, right? People will have no idea what to do, and it'll just be like the whole. 200 students with like nothing, like, and it's really shocking because we go over it again and again and again, but when it comes to a case, students get really lost, like, I don't know how to analyze this case. So this is your opportunity, analyze the case. 200 students are having a problem. Why does that reflect the students? Well, it, it does reflect students if all 200 of them did not engage with the LMS. Right, if they didn't read the material and they came up to the tutorials and they didn't engage with the material and they came up to the exam last year, it was the first time the exam was run, so that would explain why they, they didn't practice for the exam. Yeah, well, I'm, I'm exaggerating. It's probably in all 200. There were about maybe 300 and something students, maybe about, you know, maybe about 60-70% of them had very little to say on the exam. Right, on the second half of the exam. The first half of the exam, students can get away with because multiple choice, I guess people can guess if they don't know. Short answer questions, we deliberately make it sort of easy because we know the second half is hard, but the case. And it's always the same mistake. Students will write about the technical side of things, right? They'll say, oh, the problem is, you know, there's a technical this or technical that or add encryption or that, and they'll miss the point of the case. The case is always around knowledge and capability. And students, even when you tell them that you're going to get a case where it's on knowledge capability, they don't engage with that, right? I think it's because it's a mind frame shift. Students come in with a very technical view of cyber, even though they understand that the technical view is not the whole view. If you give them a Case they can't articulate what the knowledge view is the IP strategy is. They, they just, they just can't. They don't have the language for it. And so the only way to address that is to actually do a lot of these scenarios, right, is to look at the case and then to say, hey, um, how do I explain that the problem is strategic, not operational, right? And we'll try this one. And I've told the stu, the tutors last night that when you get the, um, when you get students giving you feedback on what they said, check the altitude. Right, if they keep giving you operational answers, like, oh, let's, uh, you know, let's, uh, put in a biometric or do a firewall, blah, blah, if it's technical, or it's operational, let's say, for example, let's run, you know, let's change the behavior of so and so individual, and they missed the whole strategic level, right, which is the, what's the design of the organization? What's the structure of the organization, right? Why are the organ, why does the organization not have a team to do this? Or why aren't these people talking to each other? Right, if, if they missed that side, which is the strategic layer, they get the altitude wrong, they're sitting at the operational layer, not as, that's the problem. They pull everybody up to the strategic layer, so they'll give you that, that feedback, um, and then you'll get a practice exam later in this semester as well. But I'm just gonna tell you now what you're going to struggle with. You're gonna either not know what to do, that's maybe 50, 60% of the class, or you're going to give a very technical answer. Because you're either MIT or you're like MIT, right? And it's like about 10, 20% of the students are likely to actually understand what to do and how to articulate a strategic level answer to a case. Scenario, it's up to you. I mean, uh, if you, if you're only gonna have 2 hours to do this, so I don't know what you're thinking about how much time you have, but you're, when you, we're, we've structured the second half of the exam. So when you, when we say give us 5 insights, we'll immediately see what kind of insights are these. Are these going to be organizational design insights, or is it going to be a technical insight, right? And then we say, what's the key risk? Is the risk going to be, oh, it's an IT service availability problem, or are they going to see the IP capability problem? And then in the third part, when we say, what are your recommendations, are your recommendations all going to be technical, operational things, or are you going to try to change the design of the organization? Right? So it's so clear when we see the answers, whether they're getting it or whether they've completely lost the plot, right? So, yeah. Those are a lot of hints. So let's get on with this week's I've already talked about what's going to be in the actual workshop. So, what are the learning objectives? These are the four key ones, security paradigms. Strategy tactics operations. How do you combine paradigms to form defense in depth? And can you see the, in the castle, these paradigms being used? And security strategy when it comes to this, so the strategy isn't just one control, it's the combination of all your controls applied in the environment, right? So it's not one control, it's not one device, it's not just policy, it's not just training, it's what's the big program? How are all these things coming together to deal with the risk scenarios that your organization collectively has, so your risk exposure. So, what is strategy? Um, there's whole books written on strategy. People cannot agree on what is strategy. Strategy is the common analogy is the three blind men and the elephant problem, right? Each blind person looks at the elephant. One describes it as thin and long. One is really wide and short, and the other is something else. And so they're all describing the elephant, but they're looking at different aspects of it. It's all the elephant, but it looks like different things depending on where your perspective is. So strategy is very complex. Here are some general. Definitions, the craft of collectively rising to a significant challenge and accomplishing more than might be reasonably expected as a result of self-knowledge, resolve, foresight, creativity, and genuine capabilities cultivated over the medium to long term. So there's, there is the challenge aspect to it, the accomplishing what is more than. You could do without a strategy aspect to it. There is the foresight, creativity and genuine capability, and there is the time frame over a period, right, that strategy sort of addresses. And the second definition strategy relates to the coherence of the alignment of broad intentions, environmentalist circumstances and available resources, but the process of assessing alignment should be done in relation to perceived challenge, opportunity, or difficulty. So you usually have a strategy as a result of a challenge. And usually you have to align your intentions, the environment, and your resources, and you're doing that alignment because of the challenge. So all of these things are coming together, and none of these two definitions are security specific. They are broad, and the reason why I'm giving you broad definitions is to give you a feel for what the term strategy means inherently outside of the context of security. It's just to get you that feeling. Now, this is the, the definition that our team came up with about 20 years ago when we started debating internally what is security strategy and we couldn't agree. which was something that could be expected when you have a lot of opinions from a lot of people who think they know a lot about security. So here's the definition we sort of, it's a kitchen sink definition. We put everything in there because we couldn't agree on a shorter one. Strategy is the art and science of deciding how to best utilize appropriate defensive information security technologies and measures. And to deploy and apply them in a coordinated way to defend organizational information resources against internal and external threats by offering confidentiality, integrity, and availability at least effort and cost while being effective. That's like a lot, right? It's like, it's the kitchen sink definition. So, it is an art and a science. Number 2, it's about how to use your appropriate controls. In those days we talked a lot about technologies. Nowadays I would probably talk about formal, informal, and technological controls and administrative controls, all your controls, how to deploy them in a coordinated way. So it's not one control by itself, it's all the controls working together collectively, coordinated. And why are you coordinating? Because you want to defend information resources. This is not an army definition, it's a civilian definition, so it's defense, no offense. And what is it against, against internal and external threats, and you're trying to preserve confidentiality and integrity and availability of your information resources, and you're trying to do it efficiently, that's the least effort bit, and cost effectively, which is something that a lot of people don't think about, which is the economics of it, right? So, just a simple, you know, explanation, simple example here. If your strategy costs more than the value of the asset, You're not very smart. OK? If your asset is worth $100,000 and your security program to protect that asset is worth a million dollars, what are you doing? Right? The asset You look at the value of the asset, you shouldn't be spending more than 10% of the value of the asset in the security of it. If you're spending more, then you're obviously not thinking straight. So, that part. The cost bit is a very important part of security economics, right? How much am I spending to protect an asset is a key part of how I run my security. So those are all the, I've already talked about these bits and pieces. Now, We know a lot about controls because we've already gone through risk and policy and technological controls and training, but how do I use those controls? You could just say, well, training is, I mean, training is obvious is train people, policy, write a policy, right? Tell, tell us what's allowed and what's not allowed. Uh, but no, this is not what we mean. Yes, you can do all those things and those mechanisms, those controls have a sort of inherent way of using them. But the thing is, when you piece them together, you've got to have some kind of Understanding of security science, right? So not information systems or computer science, but security science, which is a different field and is not taught in universities at all. You will never find the security department in all but a few universities, right? It's just a very, you know, opaque discipline area that Arises from the study of other things. So you'll think about security when civil engineers think about security, you'll study security as part of civil engineering. When you study security in IT, you'll study in IT. You rarely ever see security studied independently of a context area. Right? So we pulled these out ourselves and said, OK, if we were going to define what is security science in this context, what would we be talking about? We'd be talking about prevention, detection, response, deterrence, surveillance, deception, perimeter defense, compartmentalization, and layering, right? These are like these, these These, you know, building blocks of how you would build a security strategic tactical operational program by pulling the kinds of security paradigms or constructs or ways of doing security, and then applying them in a context, right? So what do these mean? Prevention is very simple, right? It's basically a blocking motion. There's a threat actor, and there's an asset, the threat actors trying to get at the asset. You prevent the threat actor from accessing the asset by creating a boundary and patrolling the boundary. And ensuring that the boundary makes the asset inaccessible, that is prevention, right? And that is a blocking motion, and you've got some examples here. Some are obvious, a fortress, you know, a, uh, you know, a building, a wall, but then there's some not so obvious, like outer space. I can get to something because outer spaces in between, that's acting in a preventive capacity. So prevention is normally passive. It's always there working in the background, and sometimes, and again if you see a blocking motion, it's prevention. So if you try to access, you know, you run a movie and the movie's got, you know, codes in the DVD or Blu-ray and it's not going to play because there's some piracy protection, that's also prevention. Detection is basically trying to identify a behavior, noticing a behavior that violates security. And detection is usually paired with response. There's no point detecting a security violation if you can't do anything about it. So usually you've got detection and then you've got response paired with it. Response is about taking appropriate actions, corrective actions against whatever the violation is. So, IT detection and response. What are we thinking about in IT? We're usually talking about intrusion detection systems. Um, intrusion detection systems usually do the detection, but they can trigger response mechanisms like shutting down a network, etc. And then you've got prevention, detection response can be combined together, and from an economics point of view, it makes a lot of sense. So if I've got a document and I want to protect this document, it's a valuable document. Let's say it's worth $100,000. It's a formula to my something or other, I don't know, KFC, whatever, I don't know, it's probably worth more than that. But whatever it is, is a formula or a recipe or something valuable on a document, I want to protect it, I could put it in a safe. Yeah, and most of you might think a safe is a safe is a safe, but actually safes are very different depending on their ratings. There are some safes that will resist a fire for 30 minutes. Some will resist a chemical bar attack for 60 minutes. Some will resist safe crackers, you know, etc. etc. They come with time ratings, right? So how long can a safe resist an attack? The problem with the safe is it's a preventive measure. Right, you can buy a safe, they're very expensive if you say, hey, I want this to resist everything forever. That's impossible. Eventually somebody will break into it, right? So, a cheap safe will give you maybe 30 minutes. An expensive safe maybe will give you a couple of hours, and depending on what they are resisting, but I could save a lot of money by buying a cheap safe, putting in a room with an alarm, and having a security guard come within 30 minutes. Right? So that would be cheap. 30 minutes safe costs a lot less, cheap alarm, and then a security guard that's guaranteed to come within 30 minutes means I don't have to buy an expensive safe anymore. And I'm combining prevention, detection and response. These three paradigms from an economic point of view, I can combine them in a way that makes it affordable but effective at the same time. So I'm just demonstrating to you how paradigms are combined. That's my example. Deterrence, deterrence is basically a behavioral mechanism, right? It's the way that we influence human behaviors and human attitudes, and deterrence usually in your mind will, will relate to the consequences of an action. If you were to take it, you would be suffering these consequences, and deterrence, I think I've said this before, has two main pillars for it to work. Number one, the person that is being deterred has to believe that the penalty will be applied for sure. Not selectively, not maybe, but for sure, and the second is that the penalty has to be severe enough that they'll be deterred, right? If the penalty is not severe, they'll do it anyway. If they think the penalty is severe, but it probably won't happen to them, they'll do it anyway. Right. How is deterrence implemented? Usually by policy and policy again, you can see the behavior or the attitude of the organization around deterrence by the choice of the language they use. If they say the organization must fire somebody for a particular action, it means that the organization has decided that it is going to hold itself accountable and give itself no way out if somebody does something, regardless of how much they might like that person. But if they say that the organization will consider, you know, firing somebody or consider punitive measures, it means that the organization will treat something with, with, with, you know, see something, some action as severe, but gives itself options on whether to fire the person or suspend the person or give them a stern talking to, etc. etc. Surveillance is the systematic monitoring of the environment, sort of a full spectrum approach whereas detection is very narrow, surveillance is very broad, so systematic monitoring of the security environment, it helps to develop situational awareness. Situational awareness is a very powerful term because it represents the organization's ability to make sense of what is happening to it, this idea of self-awareness. Too many organizations, too many organizations. We have a whole research avenue, whole project on situation awareness where we measure how well organizations have awareness of what's happening to them. And you might think, well, why is that hard? It's hard because you have 1000 people in the organization and they don't talk to each other on everything, on very few things. And so when an attack is happening in the organization, a cyber attack, you can guess how many people know about it. Or how many people are engaged, right? It's usually the IT team and everybody else is pretending that nothing's happening. So, situation awareness, it's about, can you see what's going on? Can you make sense of what's going on? What are you going to do next, right? That's your situation awareness, and it is all built on your surveillance, your optics. Can you see? If you cannot see and you've got blind spots, and your attack is spilling over into your blind spot, then you don't know what's happening. And then every decision you make after that is going to be compromised by the fact that you're missing information. Deception is even more powerful than surveillance. It's the one most powerful paradigm that you have, if you are a defender against the threat actor. Why is it powerful? Because The natural advantage that a threat actor has is massive over somebody that they're attacking, right? The attacker has the advantage of deciding when to attack, where to attack, how to attack, and how much of the resource base they want to use in the attack, right? They have a lot of natural leverage and the defense. Usually gets surprised by the attack. They don't know who's attacking them. They don't know where the attack is coming from. They don't know who the attacker is. And so with that on that leverage, just on the point of leverage, the attacker has so much advantage that it's almost impossible for a defender to survive an attack. Any attack, I mean we're talking about a small organization, a small party of people can take on a very large organization and attack them and be successful because of agility, to speed and flexibility and creative ways of attacking them because they dictate. All the parameters of the attack itself, right? The leverage, by the way, shifts dramatically after the attack. Once the attack is over, the organization then can now do their hunt for who the attacker is, and then all the leverage is on their side, right, because now they can take their time, they can, you know, figure out, pull all the logs, they can figure out what the trail is, they can start hunting the trail, they can bring all their resources on that one, right? So the leverage shifts dramatically pre-attack and post-attack. So why is deception powerful? Deception is powerful because if the defender can deceive the attacker to the point where the attacker doesn't understand the organization they're attacking, they lose their leverage. And there's some MSSPs, there's one called LMNrix, LMNTRX, which actually shuts off all logging in an organization in their client organizations, and builds trip wires and illusions, right? They build a very sophisticated digital illusion around the organization, so you can't understand its structure, right? False accounts in every server. That you can't see internally, but an external party will end up getting confused by it because they will dump your servers and see all these accounts and they can't tell which one is genuine and which one's not. And then all these Word documents that they keep creating with decoy words so you can't tell what the organization's actual information is about. So all this illusion, and the illusion works because it's changing all the time. If it's static, somebody will pick it up and they'll figure it out, but it's a changing illusion. It's really powerful. It makes it very difficult for the attacker to even start an attack because they don't understand what they're attacking. So deception is very sophisticated. It takes a lot of resources to do well, but it's extremely powerful if it's done well. So those are all the types of paradigms that really relate to behavior and really around the attacker or defender's behavior. Somebody is blocking, somebody is deceiving, somebody is detecting, somebody is responding. But the battlefield itself, the battlefield itself can be structured in a particular way to make the attacks harder. To be successful, right? And so perimeter defense, you understand perimeter defense is because we've spoken about it in a different context. But perimeter defense, you've got the asset, you build a wall around it or a boundary, and you enforce that, that separation, and it's hard for the attacker to get into that because they have to overcome that boundary. So your perimeter defense is one type of way of structuring your battlefield. Don't let the battlefield lay completely open. Create. A perimeter around your assets so the attacker has to overcome it. And then you can use the same principle by creating multiple compartments and the strategy here is once the attacker, if the attacker is able to breach one compartment, it doesn't mean they have access to everything. They have to breach multiple compartments. Every compartment is another challenge. That is compartmentalization, right? Breaking up your battle space into segments and then building security around each segment so that each of the segments is a separate challenge and it buys you time, right? That is the main strategy here is that not only is it, you know, it'd be great if you could just deny them, right, access, but if they are a very sophisticated actor, at least you are slowing them down and buying yourself time. And then layering, layering is kind of similar to perimeter and compartmentalization, except that it's checking all those boundaries and it's designing the security countermeasures to stack together. Right, so it's stacking these so that they complement each other. If you, you know, and it, it works, it's more easy to visualize with a castle. If you've got a castle with a sequence of 3 sets of walls, one is made of limestone, one is made of concrete, one is made of something else. You know, it makes it very hard for the attacker who might have an answer for limestone but can't attack concrete, but can or maybe can attack concrete but cannot deal with something else, right? So the three together create. A series of challenges that collectively demand a higher level of sophistication for the attacker, right? And you can see this in the digital environment. We can buy products, firewalls from 3 different manufacturers, which is what ANZ Bank does. Don't trust any single vendor. They buy from 3 different vendors who aren't in the same ecosystem, and then they combine their assets, so a hacker has to be able to be comfortable with attacking a firewall from vendor A and vendor B and vendor C in order to get through the sequence. Yeah, so it's the same type of the layering allows you to combine these together. And so, we bring a lot of this together in defense in depth, which is basically saying that if you can, between the threat actor and the asset, create depth. Series of obstacles design the obstacles so they work together, complement each other, buy you time. Demand that the attacker be more sophisticated, make it expensive for the attacker to get through these obstacles. Make it a deterrent factor so that if it's really expensive, they'll go somewhere else. All those sorts of, you know, psychology around it plays when you're playing defense in depth. And so we have, you can see in the middle of this bull's eye, it's a kind of a bull's eye framework. You've got information as the asset. It's sitting in the middle. And then on the left hand side, you've got the digital environment, on the right hand side, you've got the cognitive environment, right? And on the left hand side, you can see how many different types of controls we can insert into the layering of the digital environment. To, to get to the information, if you're coming from the outside, you got to go through firewalls, intrusion detection systems, proxy servers, encryptions, blah, blah blah blah. There's all these things that you can do. On the right hand side, there's very little you can do. You train people and you hope that they behave well. Which is why I say, why would I attack a digital environment and network to get access to a document when I can simply just ask somebody, you know, just ask them the right way. That's why social engineering is so much more effective than a technical cyberattack. So how do you find a castle in a network? Castle, you can design a network like a castle on the right hand side, you've got a bare network with no design around it. And on the left hand side you can see how, sorry, you can't read the writing, but you've got firewalls and proxies and so forth. And then you've got on the inside, you've got your assets sitting inside compartmented. You know, network subnets and you can design this so that Every firewall, actually probably is more easier to see in the next slide. You can create this concentric circle environment. You see those flames. They're basically every time you create a, every time you put a firewall on a channel of traffic, you're basically creating a concentric castle. You're creating layers. You're creating separation. And so I can create. From the external perimeter to the most internal perimeter next to my most valued asset, I can create layers by just pinching the traffic at different points. Right, choking the traffic off or filtering the traffic at those points and making sure that my firewall policies are set up in such a way that traffic can't pass, you know, a, a zone unless it's really supposed to pass that zone. And so you can see multiple firewalls created concentric network. You can create an air gap. To make it impossible for an external party to get to an asset. If an asset is really that valuable, then don't. Don't put it on the network, right? I was having a conversation with one of the PhD students just today in the morning, and he's studying how entrepreneurial SMEs protect their IP from theft. And it's a fascinating, you know, PhD because he's looking, he's looked at about 1520 organizations, small startups to middle-level startups, and they are setting up really valuable products, each of them. And he's asking them, how are you protecting the IP behind the product? And he's trying to figure out whether they're aware of what IP is. And number 2, where is the IP in the organization? Like do they know where IP could be, like in their heads, in the digital environment, on paper, on whiteboards, like everywhere. It's fragmented everywhere. And then he's asking the question, what are the what is the security mechanism that you have in place to protect your IP? From your partners, from your competitors, from your suppliers, from all of those people, right? And he's looking at the, he's mapping the ecosystem and he's seeing how some of the more exemplar SMEs are protecting their IP by not digitizing, by refusing. He, he quoted in the morning a particular scientist who is sitting in a lab and writing everything in handwriting and refuses. To allow any part of his IP to ever hit a laptop or a digital device, right? Because he is mortified that as soon as it becomes digitized, the IP, it'll be stolen, right? Because it's out of his control. So he keeps everything in the lab notebook. And so you've got some of these organizations like that, we're saying, we keep our IP in our heads, we don't digitize. When we present in a conference, we have different sets of slides, right, for conference 1, conference 2, conference 3, because if we detect somebody's stealing our IP and we see our slides show up places, we'll know which conference is, you know, stealing our IP, right? Or which group is stealing our IP. So there are some of these people are, are paranoid. They are petrified. They are worried about somebody stealing their IP. And the thing that I found most interesting is all the intelligence that they're collecting about who might. Doing that. It's competitive intelligence. It's not cyber threat intelligence. Even when their IP is digitized, the cyber people have zero idea about the business IP and all the partners and suppliers that could steal it. The IT people are still thinking cyber threat intel and reading. You know, cyber threat intel reports. And they have no idea that the business's actual intelligence or threat or risk is around leakage, and it's happening amongst partners and suppliers and collaborators. And so the disconnect between the business and IT side shows so clearly here where competitive intelligence is actually the cyber intelligence. Right, that's what the threat intel people are supposed to be doing, but because they are completely disconnected from the business, they don't have a clue on how to actually deal with the firm. And it's so clear in the SMEs, the small, because you've got only a small number of people that you can't, you don't see the crossover between competitive intelligence and security intelligence, right? It should be the same thing. Competitive intelligence is security intelligence when we're talking about IP. Right? So anyway, so back to the story, you can see all the different types of mechanisms that need to be in place. And I made this diagram for you to try to Connect all these words together in a dictionary that makes sense. So, start with strategy. Strategy is there to protect your information. Well, actually, strategy can be a plan, can be a process, right? It shows up in two different things. It could be a plan, it could be a document that says this is what I want to do A, B, C, D, or it could be a process, we're going to do A, B, C, and D, right? It is there to achieve a security objective, which might be to protect your most valuable assets, depending on what it is. It protects your information resources, those are your assets. It works, has to complement security culture. Right, so that's, I don't know if you guys are following, maybe I should use my Sorry, can you see my arrow? Yes, you can. So, strategy can be a plan, can be a process. It achieves a security objective. It protects your information resources, it works, has to work with your culture. It reduces security risk that comes from the environment. It is supported by tactics and operations, so strategy, then tactics and operations in that sequence, so top level, middle level, bottom level, and these three things strategy, tactics, operations, they leverage controls, formal, informal, and technological controls. You can even add administrative if you want there, and they draw their principle from paradigms which is prevention, deception, detection, deterrence, and so forth. Right? So you see how all these words come together. They're, they're like a dictionary that you can use to understand a lot of the concepts in this course. Right? It's the relationships in the diagram that make it valuable. Right, the relationships, understand what the terms mean and how they relate to each other, and a lot of the complexity around this course will become easier to understand. So, some advanced ideas. If I tell you I have a document in a safe, but I don't tell you where the safe is. Um, Is that security, right? And the answer is, well, I would say I would certainly not voluntarily tell you where the safe is. Like that wouldn't be very smart, but real security is when you know where the safe is and you have a safe just like it at home, and you have all the time in the world to try to crack the safe, and you know exactly where this document is, um, and you still can't beat my security. That's real security. That's where I'm not relying on the fact that you don't know something to protect me. Right? So separate the fact that Information denied. If information denied is your security strategy, that is not a good strategy. Yeah. So, assume that the attacker knows. About your strategy, assume that the attacker knows what your assets are. Assume the attacker knows your organization, and if all of that is known, then what is your defense? Is your defense still effective, or if they know, then your defense becomes ineffective, that is a problem. That's why we say security through obscurity is not security. The second is the weakest, oh, question, sorry. Um, shouldn't of security still be part of security, so yeah, if it does secure and they can take the time to figure it out. Absolutely. I mean, as I, as I said, I wouldn't volunteer the information to them. And yes, denying information is a, is part of your strategy, but relying on the denial of information is the issue, right? So definitely part of your strategy, don't advertise your security, deny them as much as you can, but I would put the attackers in categories, right? So think about, you know, if I'm talking about, you know, residential security, I've got my local, you know, thief, I've got my neighbor, I've got my You know, I've got a family members who might be problematic. I've got uh And then I've got the assassin, and then I've got the government, right, very paranoid, yes, but each of them is an entirely different challenge. So I can deny, I can maybe say I'm denying information to my local robber, and that's gonna make a big difference, but to the government, nothing. So for the government, I need a different strategy. I have to assume that they not only know the layout of my house, they can pull the maps easily. They probably have engineers on their team that built all my security defenses. So if they engineered my defenses and they know the layout and they know the assets, and they've got all the phone records from since I was like 2 years old and I started speaking, and they know my psychology, right, where's my defense? Yeah, so that, that's, you have a completely different strategy for the different threat actor. Um, weakest link, oh, thank you for the question. I wish people would ask more questions so we could, yeah, weakest link principle is basically saying a chain is no longer, is no stronger than a weakest link. If you've got, um, an organization with a range of different pieces that have to come together to make your puzzle work and one of them breaks, then your puzzle might be compromised. Yeah, so. In your house, if you've got a strong, very strong door, you know, Not strong, but let's say this was, you know, 12 inch steel. But my wall is brick. Why would I, why would the attacker go through the door when they could go through the wall? Yeah, the wall is easier to get through than the door. Yeah, if I'm, so with my home, if I'm, you know, putting all of my resources in my door, right, and maybe even my walls and my, my windows, but the roof, you know, easy, or if the floor, if I'm not on a concrete slab. I mean, so you have to think about the whole picture and test the whole picture, not just the conventional. You know, entry points. You got to look at the whole thing, right? So, there's your weakest link principle. Anything that's weak, if you have a good attacker, they'll go through it. Good as in competent, not as in. And so, and one other thing you have to think about is profiling the threat actor. If your neighborhood, you know, robber is an expert lock picker, you might have spent a lot of money on the sixteen-inch, you know, steel, but the lock that you chose was easy to pick. Right? So what's the profile of the threat actor? What's their strength? And can you account for their capability with your defense? So you need to stop thinking about generic threat actors and become specific about the threat actor. What is their strength? What are, what's their history? What's their motivation? What are they good at doing? And then, do you have a strategy for addressing or countering that? And how adaptable are they? Are they willing to learn? If they're willing to learn, then you are in real trouble, right? Because they're going to find a way. Right, they can see you. Like, I mean, it's different if you're the owner of a house and you're protecting the house and building all the strategy, it's different to if you are somebody who doesn't know anything about the house and comes from the outside. And looks at this house like it's a fresh canvas. They'll see things that you can't see, right? Things will just get obscured. You'll be lost in the detail, where they'll just look at it and go, oh, you know, that door, I can see the hinge, it's slanting. That door is a problem. I can go through there, right? You won't see it because you just think the door has always been like that. So their fresh perspective is a real advantage. So you have to think about what, how are they gonna look at you? And I, I have to say, I mean, I remember I was speaking to again ANZ Bank some, some last year. And they were saying, you know, we built our entire risk strategy, our security strategy around protecting our key assets, and we never realized that the attacker wasn't thinking about attacking the key assets directly. They were just thinking about getting into our environment, so they were trying to find the weakest protected mail servers or photocopiers or whatever, and they just tried to get into the organization and then build their chain from there. And so we had to change our entire strategy around bulletproofing, you know, shielding all the main assets to shielding the much broader environment to prevent people from getting a foothold into the environment, right? So that tells you a lot about the Their realization that the classical risk strategy or way of thinking about it works against you because it puts you in this mindset to say this is how you protect things, and then you see an attacker who doesn't follow that mindset and then you go, oh, they just broke the whole model, the whole way of thinking. Right, because they have a fresh perspective that we didn't actually think about, right? And you can think about large organizations like ANZ Bank with about, you know, 9 million customers, uh, 30,000 employees or 50,000 employees, huge organization and so many different business units that are spinning off their own IT infrastructure. It's so hard to know at one point at any point in time, how much IT infrastructure you actually have. Because teams are just buying their own IT and deploying it and not telling you, or deliberately not telling the security team because they're afraid that the security team will put in software, security software that will slow down servers so they won't tell the security team that such IT even exists. So now you have these shadow IT systems popping up across the organization. Yes, yeah. Yeah, yeah, they buy up all these servers and they don't tell IT about them deliberately, right? Because they don't want IT to say, oh, we need to monitor that. We have to deploy our software and then the server slows down. And they're like, no, no, no, we are business, we are the revenue generators. You guys are just cost, right? We'll do it ourselves, and they'll spin up their own teams. Right. So, and so, and that's just, that's just them buying IT from business money. Imagine all the personal IT that's going around, people's private phones, private laptops, and how much company information is flowing through that, right? And that you have no control over, right? Corporate can't control the shadow systems around. So, and now if you're the attacker, you're like, yes, this is perfect, right? Now, this is an out of control organization. Now, I'm not talking about ANZ anymore, right? But this is an out of control organization. All I need to do is to find some shadow IT system that I can get into and I'll find tunnel my way into the actual organization. Yeah, it's so, it's so easy to do once the organization starts to fragment like that. OK. And shared security, and this is, this is why this point is really important. The organization is a shared security environment. If you've got, imagine you've got like a, a community on a piece of land, and it's like a flat piece of land and they build a wall around it and the wall is so long, it's like kilometers long. The only way to maintain the wall is to give To divide into sections and to say to each family or each small, you know, collective of families, you guys have to look after this wall, right? And so if there's like 100 families looking after a kilometer long wall, and only one of the families decides, Hey, I'm not going to care about this wall, you can easily see from a mile away, ah, that part of the wall is lower or it's crumbling. Right, I'll go that way. And so that one family is going to compromise the security of the entire compound of 100 families, because they didn't keep up their side of the wall. And this is very obvious physically. Digitally, it's very hard for a person who's in charge of making sure the wall is high enough to actually spot where the wall is crumbling because the digital wall is not visible. You have to actually monitor and surveil and scan constantly in order to tell whether somebody is keeping up with their wall or not. Yeah. Oh, perfect. One minute. Anybody have a one minute question? Yeah. So we talked about one paradigms earlier. Yeah, the two categories of like the parity and the certainty, from what I know there's one more in the. With the the salary, why is it not, sorry, what is the third one salary like how fast a punishment is enough to on the when the like when the violation, uh, OK, the speed at which the it's, it's actually interesting. So you're saying severity, uh, well, I guess the theory would probably say it's part of severity, right? The speed at which the, OK. Oh, OK. But is it actually still related to cybersecurity, or did you omit that because it's not related to cybersecurity? Well, I mean, the, the theory, as we know, always has two, right? But you can add the third if you want and say the speed of it. It doesn't really, you know, change, change the story. I know like the theory of. OK, OK. Well, in the information systems literature, they only talk about 2. So I'd be curious. Send, send it to me, and I will send it to the PhD student who graduated 10 years ago and did his PhD on deterrence and say, why didn't you find this particular third one? But thank you, yeah. No, oh yes. How is prevention different than perimeter? Is perimeter just a type of prevention? No, no, no, no prevention is much, much higher level. So not all, so perimeter you can say is a type of prevention, but the difference is perimeter layering and compartmentalization is about structuring a battlefield, right? So it's those are very specific to that context. Prevention in general is just blocking. It doesn't have to do with structuring the battlefield, right? It could just be, I don't know, uh, the software thing, right? You try to access and software denies, right? So that's why prevention is separated from perimeter, right? Yeah. Yes. So the question is, do companies defend against specific threat actors or general threat actors, and I think the answer from all of our research is that most companies do general because they're not good enough to do specific. Yeah, yeah. Specific means you have to have the people who understand the specifics. General is just, hey, we'll just get a general feed and we'll just review it. We'll just, you know, skim through it, and then we'll just write an attribution report after the break-in has happened. We'll write a report that says, oh, it could be APT 10, and the report will tick the compliance box and we're done. Right? That's it. Yeah, it's, it's very deliberately inadequate because it's the regulator saying you need to do threat intel, and they're like, oh shit, we have to pay for that, right? Nobody wants to pay for threat intel, so they'll just do whatever and they'll write a report and they'll tick a box and they don't care. In fact, one of the interviews, I was just looking at this yesterday, said the supervisor actually said, uh, why are you trying to identify the threat actor? That is a waste of time. You should just, you know, write the report on the incident. And don't waste our time. We're trying to attribute something, it makes no difference to the business, right? So that's basically saying like if your house gets, gets broken in every day, you're happier to just pick up the pieces and change the glass, but you don't want to ask the question, why is my house being broken into every day or who. Might it be the same individual, and if it is, what's their strategy and why are they here, right? Those questions, these are specific. That's where we go to the specifics. Nobody wants to ask those questions. Yeah, and they've just dealt with them. They've picked up the pieces and they've, they've written it off. It's a cost. Yeah, it's a cost. Yeah, cost of doing business. Windows broken again, change the window, and they'll just keep doing that forever, right? They won't, they don't wanna ask why. That's something nobody wants to ask because that's the business does not want to know. Yeah, yeah. OK, thank you. 01 more thing. Next week is mid-semester break, so no lecture. The week after that, we are back, but I will be uploading a lecture cause I'll still be overseas. So there will be no lecture, obviously next week cause there's no university, but the week after that, there will also be no lecture. I will put up an announcement, and there will be, I will be uploading the actual recorded lecture, OK? And then we're back to program as usual. Yes. Wait, let me just turn this off.
